DREW
====

Drew is a set of libraries providing a C interface to cryptographic primitives
as well as higher-level protocols.  It is designed to have very fast (if not the
fastest) implementations of these primitives, while still preserving
portability.  An extremely thorough testsuite ensures that the code correctly
implements every algorithm.

The license for Drew is spelled out in the document LICENSE, but roughly it is
all available under the terms of your choice of the Apache License, version 2.0,
or the GNU General Public License, version 2.0 (possibly with some rare
exceptions).  This license was chosen to minimize barriers to use.  Patented
algorithms are not included if they cannot be distributed under the GPL.

Releases are available tagged from git.  The repository is stored on github at
<https://github.com/bk2204/drew> and can be cloned from
<git://github.com/bk2204/drew.git>.

There are plans to include full TLS, ASN.1, and OpenPGP implementations, and
work on these is ongoing.  Source-level compatibility with existing
implementations, including OpenSSL, GnuTLS, and GPGME, is also planned.

To build Drew, edit the file config and adjust the options to suit your needs.
For algorithms, specify "y" if you want to build the algorithm into the
implementations library (libdrew-impl) or "m" if you want to build it as a
plugin.  Other values disable the implementation.  For other functionality,
specify "y" to enable the feature or any other value to disable it.

Some algorithms, those containing the text "128" in their names, use 128-bit
arithmetic and will only compile on certain platforms and only with a recent
GCC.  Since alternatives are provided for machines that do not meet those
requirements, it is safe to disable them without any loss of functionality.

The only module which has external dependencies is the tommath plugin, which
depends on the public domain libtommath for its implementation.  Since this is
currently the only bignum implementation, public key software will not work
unless you enable it.  Also, both a C and C++ compiler are required.  If not
using the GNU linker, you may need to instruct your linker specifically to not
export symbols other than those starting with "drew_".

Once you have edited the config file, type "make" (with or without a -j option)
to build the code.  Then type "make test" to run a full testsuite.  Please be
aware that on slow machines (such as a 333 MHz UltraSPARC IIi) this may take in
excess of an hour.  Very rarely (approximately 1% of the time), a PRNG may fail
a test due to the statistical nature of the test; this is not a problem.

To install the files, make sure the directory to which you want to install is
correctly specified in the config file and type "make install".  To remove the
files, type "make uninstall".

Some documentation on the interface is provided; type "make doc" to build it.
You will need Apache FOP and the DocBook XSL-NS Stylesheets.

Please report bugs and wishlist requests on the github issue tracker.  Until a
mailing list is set up, please send email to brian m. carlson at
<sandals@crustytoothpaste.net>.
